Lecture:DD1.3
---------------
Topic: Surrender
Chapter 10: The Opulence of the Absolute

TEXT 8
-------
aham sarvasya prabhavo
mattah sarvam pravartate
iti matva bhajante mam
budha bhava-samanvitah

TRANSLATION
--------------
I am the source of all spiritual and material worlds. Everything emanates from Me. 
The wise who know this perfectly engage in My devotional service and worship Me with all their hearts.
---------------

Prelimary understanding of the God:
source of everything and every thing eminates from him.


Everyting in this world have a source and emanates from it. if we trace backward comes to an end point that is the god.
krisna said that everything is eminating from him.

Material concepts like universal love and brotherhood fails unless you love the origion of everything.
if you can't love god then you can't love any one.

whatever you can imazine and can't imazine for have origion as god.

Ex: people living in forein countries shows effection and form communities based on their origion. They love each other.
Even in cities based on language and relegion we form communities and rapo in states and countries and form bond.

If we trace back common origion is the krishna but if your vision is disconnected from common origion, duality comes hate and love among 
communities.


Initially child is very selfish, grabs whatever is pleasurable to him he grabs it.
gradually hepls friends, parents, neighbours, their community, nation, humanity, wildlife, nature.
 
Person with broad vision not act for the pleasure of his community but concerned of origion of everything.

Meaning of understanding god:

understandin krishna is the origion of everything-->budha--very truly learned person knows it.
he renders service in bhava.

Ex:
universe is like a tree.
Different portions of tree cant take water seperately..
if you water the root automatically all parts of it nourishes.Similerly you can't truly even youur closest dearest unless you love krishna.


bodily plat form love is not true thats why father and son seperation etc these are all based on faulty slaughering platform.
but if u love krishna what to speak about family member and all.

Aham beeja --i am the seed of 8.4 million species
not only father of indian hindus but he is the father of all living entities.

all are secondary fathers here--understand taht lord krishan is the father of everything--this is the visoin of universal brotherwood and love.
maintaining slaughter houses otherside universal brother hood is not possible.

EX:
----
king (protcet all living entities of his kingdom) shibi--> eagle and dove
cut his own flesh popund by pound to feed Eagle and protect dove.
here vision his is protect all living entities originated from god.

if you love krishna, will develop equal vision and love towards all living entities then there wont be any slaughter houses.

EX:
---
Mrugari--Chaitanyamrutha--Simply by loving Krishan one develops love towards all living entities.
half killed animals gives pleasure to him thias is all he knew from his child hood.

He became mild and humble after seeing Naradamuni.
Enquired how to feed his family and him.
Naradamuni blessed him and asked him to chant and folllow regulative principles.
All villlagers suprised started giving grains and everything.

When Naradamuni comes agian he brushes the ants side--dont even want to harm ants

summary:
if you become devote of the lord, will u not love fellow man-->this is the universal vision--> solution to all problems if you keep Krishna in the center.
we have to worship this person but not the aspects.
